This directory contains iDASH22 Track 2 challenge dataset.

Genotype Files:
---------------
There are two files related to the genotypes:
1) genotypes.txt.gz : This file contains the genotypes for the 20,390 variants for the 3,000 subjects. Each row corresponds to a variant. First 4 rows contains the chromosome, start, end, and variant identifier. Following the 4 columns, the genotypes for the 3,000 subjects are included. Each genotype takes a value of 0, 1, 2.

2) genotype_sample_ids.list: This file contains 3,000 rows, which are the subject identifiers, i.e., the columns of genotypes.txt.gz starting with column 5.

Phenotype Files:
----------------
2) There are 5 phenotype files that has 2 columns (subject identifier, phenotype value) for the 3,000 individuals in the genotype dataset:
phenotypes_1.txt  
phenotypes_2.txt  
phenotypes_3.txt  
phenotypes_4.txt  
phenotypes_5.txt
The subject identifiers in each phenotype file matches to one of the subjects in the genotype dataset (columns in genotypes.txt.gz).

Model Building and Evaluation Data:
-----------------------------------
Participants are expected to build prediction models that take encrypted genotype matrix as input (same format as genotypes.txt.gz), and perform encrypted model evaluation to predict the 5 phenotypes for each subject in the genotype data. The evaluation dataset contains the 20,390 variants for the 198 subject in the same format as the challenge genotype data.

Each submission must contain following:

1) Method for encryption of the genotype data
2) Encrypted prediction models (prebuilt by the participants using the Challenge Dataset)
3) Method for evaluating the encrypted models using the encrypted genotype data.
4) Method for decryption of the final results into a 198x5 matrix that correspond to estimated phenotypes for 198 subjects.

Time Requirements:
------------------
Participants are expected to perform prediction of the 5 phenotypes using encrypted model evaluation for 198 genomes in the evaluation dataset under 30 minutes. 

Accuracy:
---------
The phenotype predictions will be evaluated by comparison with the known phenotypes of the evaluation dataset. Each submission is expected to provide a prediction for 5 phenotype for each of the 200 genomes in the evaluation dataset as a 200 by 5 matrix. The continuous phenotypes will be evaluated in terms of 1-NRMSE (Normalized Root mean squared error) and binary phenotypes will be evaluated with respect to Area Under ROC (AUROC). For the ROC curves, the teams are expected to provide a score for each phenotype and each phenotype value (i.e., 0 and 1). 

Each submission will be assigned a total overall accuracy by summing the accuracies (AUC for binary and 1-NRMSE for continuous phenotypes) calculated for the 5 phenotypes. The submissions will be ranked with respect to decreasing overall accuracy.



